# RentMe
Rentme application is an implementation of a furniture store that allows the store employees and administrator to manage the inventory, rentals, and returns from the customer. This application is a team of three people’s project. The implementations are based on desktop application but could be converted to a web-based application. 
Rentme application is a database driven application that applies the process of database design and implementation of different techniques by interacting with DBMS programming language, specifying queries in SQL, DDL, and DM using stored procedures where it is appropriate.
The functionalities of this application were implemented by applying C# language as team collaboration. Lean-Agile Software Development Methods was used to design and built the database as a source of data for the application. The database system used is MS SQL Server DBMS on a desktop machine. An iterative and incremental approach was used during application development and an appropriate software development best practices and pattern MVC was implemented to accomplish it. C# language was implemented as a team collaboration using the Bitbucket repository.

The furniture store application has employees who rent furniture to customers. The employees have personal information, such as Id (unique), last name, first name, sex, date of birth, address, contact phone number, ssn, and all these are recorded in the database system and furniture information is also stored in the DB. Each item has an item Number (unique), description, category (bed, desk, chair, etc.), style (traditional, contemporary, etc.). Some items are identical (e.g. two identical chairs, each has its own itemNo, but distinguish as identical).
A unique furnitureID should are used to identify all the exact copies of the same furniture.  The same exact copies of items have the same rental rate. To simplify the system, the system only deals with daily rental rates. 

The store provides member-only services to its customers, which means, to rent furniture, the customer must become a member first. An employee at the store may help the customer register. After successful registration, a customer’s information (like the ones for employees) is kept in the DB and the customer is given a member’s ID number. An employee can also edit a member after searching for the member by phone number or first name plus the last name.
An employee can also help the customer search for the furniture that the customer would like to rent. Searches can be performed based on some criterion, for instance, it can be searched by categories such as beds, dining tables, or desks, among others, by style such as modern, traditional or by item number, or by furnitureID to find all the exact copies of the same furniture.

Once the member decides to rent furniture, he or she must bring the item numbers of the furniture that he intends to rent back to an employee at the check-out desk. The employee will check the availability of the items. If the item is available, the customer needs to provide his member ID number to the employee and the employee will check out the item for him. The member may also ask the employee to look up the same exact copies of the items he plans to rent so that he may rent more of it.
The customer can rent multiple (same or different) pieces of furniture at a visit. The system will group them into one rental transaction. For instance, a customer may rent two identical chairs, one desk at one rental transaction. For each rental transaction, the database will keep track of the item information (e.g. item number, etc.), rental date, due date, service employee information (e.g. employee number), and any other necessary information. And at the end of each rental, the program will compute and show the total rental cost.
The system allows the employee to find out what rentals that a customer has made and for each rental what items are in the rental and their due dates. There is a feature that allows the employee to find out what returns that a customer has made and for each return what items are in the return and their return dates.
In this application, customers can return items at any time and in any way (for instance, items rented together may be returned on different dates, items from different rental transactions may be returned together). Each return transaction should keep track of the items returned, date, and the service employee. So, each returned item can be traced back to its corresponding rental. 
When items are returned, the program will recalculate the cost. If the member returned an item early, it should calculate the refund amount. If the member returned an item late, it should calculate the fine. It will display a total amount for the whole return transaction.
Fines are calculated based on daily rates (e.g. rentals that are less than 24 hours will be charged at one day’s rate). For any returned item, the database will keep track of the return date, the service employee number (the employee could be different from the employee who rented the item out) plus any other necessary information. If the item is past due, then fine will be paid at return time. The fine rate for each furniture item past due is a daily rate. There is a list of fine rates set by the store for each furnitureID.
Employees can authenticate themselves before accessing the system. An employee can also search for a member’s information by his or her phone number (e.g. in case the member loses or don’t bring a member ID), or search with first and last name put together. 

The system provides an Admin interface to allow an administrator to add/view/update an employee and generate reports. In the application members or customers cannot use the interface except for administrator or employee. 
